---
title: Connect With the OSL at OSCON 2012
date: 2012-07-11
author: Kayla Harr
slug: connect-osl-oscon-2012
---
by Kayla Harr on Wed, Jul 11 2012

Staff members and students from the Oregon State University Open Source Lab will
represent the lab at Portland’s O’Reilly Open Source Convention (OSCON) July
16-20. An annual open source conference, OSCON engages all aspects of the open
source community with sessions, tutorials, keynote presentations and an expo.

The OSL will be present throughout the conference at the OSCON Expo, where the
lab will have a booth alongside open source leaders like Drupal, Facebook and
Intel. In addition, OSL Associate Director of Operations Lance Albertson will
lead a session on open source private cloud platforms. Albertson plans to
discuss the various features offered by different cloud computing platforms and
offer insight on how to choose a platform that best meets a project’s needs.

Those interested in learning more about the OSL will have the opportunity to
meet members of the lab’s staff and familiarize themselves with lab operations
at the OSL’s Birds of a Feather (BoF) session. The BoF is an informal meeting
between students and staff from the lab and community or industry members who
are interested in the lab’s operations, projects or future. The OSL booth will
also present opportunity for OSCON attendees to learn about the lab. OSL student
employees at the booth will answer questions, interact with the community and
distribute OSL swag.

While participating in OSCON, the OSL will also celebrate its first alumni
reception, welcoming students and staff who worked with the OSL in the past and
supported the lab’s success. More than 55 OSL alumni have gone on to successful
careers in the technical industry, where they have joined top companies, created
their own start-ups and made innovative contributions to open source
technologies. Three of those alumni will lead sessions at OSCON: Deborah Bryant,
the OSL’s former public sector communities manager; former Outreach Manager
Leslie Hawthorn; and former student employee Brandon Phillips.

For those attending OSCON, connect with OSL staff and students:

  Comparing Open Source Private Cloud Platforms, Lance Albertson

  Time: 10:40 a.m. Wednesday, July 18

Location: D139-140

  Open Source Lab Birds of a Feather session

  Time: 7 p.m. Wednesday, July 18

Location: E141


Visit the Open Source Lab in the Expo Hall at Booth 816.

**Alumni Presentations:**

  Free the Code: The Case for the U.S. Federal Government to Open Source
  Software as a Default Position, Deborah Bryant, John Scott

  Time: 2:30 p.m. Thursday, July 19

Location: E146

  Assholes are Killing Your Project, Donnie Berkholz, Leslie Hawthorn

  Time: 11 a.m. Friday, July 20

Location: F151

  One Tiny Daemon to Harvest Your Server Statistics (And More), Brandon Phillips

  Time: 11:50 a.m. Friday, July 20

Location: D139-40

See the full OSCON schedule at [oscon.com](http://www.oscon.com/oscon2012/public/schedule/grid/public).