---
title: "New Study to Investigate Use of Open Source Software for Securing the Energy Industry"
date: 2011-08-07
author: OSUOSL Admin
slug: energysec
---

by OSUOSL Admin on Sun, Aug 07 2011

Energy Sector Security Consortium and the Oregon State University Open Source
Lab Partner to Establish Effective and Inclusive Collaboration and Governance
Models

8-8-2011

CORVALLIS, Oregon - The Energy Sector Security Consortium (EnergySec) and Oregon
State University’s Open Source Lab (OSUOSL) announced today that they will
partner to perform strategic research on the current use of open source software
in the energy sector, especially as it relates to computer security. OSUOSL will
perform case studies looking at leading and influential organizations or
projects, the tools they use and the challenges these groups have faced in
adopting open source software.

“We are excited to be working with Oregon State University’s Open Source Lab on
this project.” said Steven Parker, Vice President of Technology Research and
Projects for EnergySec. “With their earned reputation as a trusted, independent
institution with expertise in open source software, we expect their findings
will provide us with objective information regarding the use of open source
technology in the energy community. This will allow us to better inform and
serve our member organizations.”

The project is designed to provide EnergySec with baseline data on the use of
open source software in the energy sector, especially within the area of
cybersecurity, and to produce an inventory of the experienced companies and
groups in this space. The aim is to build up a significant body of knowledge
regarding how and why energy companies and groups participate in open source,
both as users and as contributors.

“It is exciting for us to extend our research agenda and explore how open source
software may offer new and exciting solutions to this vital sector” stated Curt
Pederson, OSUOSL director. Pederson, whose early career included work in the
energy industry, will guide the project team as it also explores ways to use
open source practices to build a more cohesive community for solving the energy
industry’s shared challenges.

The studies are funded through the National Electric Sector Cybersecurity
Organization, an EnergySec program partially funded by the Department of Energy
and will be conducted over the next ten weeks with findings to be published this
Fall. Organizations interested in participating may email Deborah Bryant, OSUOSL
Principal Investigator, at energystudy@osuosl.org. More information on the
project is available on the study website at http://energystudy.osuosl.org.

About Energy Sector Security Consortium

The Energy Sector Security Consortium is a private forum of information
security, physical security, audit, disaster recovery and business continuity
professionals from energy industry asset owners. Participation is national,
including all regions through North America, with members from most states and
provinces. In addition to its primary website, the group hosts a secure
information exchange portal and meets on a regular basis to discuss current
security issues, events, tactics and strategies relevant to the energy sector.
EnergySec is incorporated as a non-profit organization and is a registered
501(c)(3) public charity. For more information, visit http://www.energysec.org.

About Oregon State University Open Source Lab

The Oregon State University Open Source Lab is the home of growing, high-impact
open source communities. Its world-class hosting services enable the Linux
operating system, Apache web server, the Drupal content management system and
more than 50 other leading open source software projects to collaborate with
contributors and distribute software to millions of users globally. Through
custom software development, vendor partnerships and industry events like the
Government Open Source Conference (GOSCON), the Lab's staff and students
encourage open source adoption in education, government, health care and other
sectors. For more information, visit http://osuosl.org.

About NESCO

The National Electric Sector Cybersecurity Organization (or NESCO) is the first
public-private partnership of its kind in the electric sector. NESCO serves as a
focal point bringing together utilities, federal agencies, regulators,
researchers, and academics. This group, along with domestic and international
experts, developers, and users help to focus cybersecurity research and
development priorities, to identify and disseminate effective common practices,
and organize the collection, analysis and dissemination of infrastructure
vulnerabilities and threats. NESCO works to identify and support efforts to
enhance cybersecurity of the electric infrastructure. This program is being
partially funded by the Department of Energy.

Media Contacts

Stacy Bresler, Vice President of Vendor and Industry Outreach, EnergySec,
503-789-5515

Leslie Hawthorn, Outreach Manager, OSU Open Source Lab, 408-480-2918
