---
title: Leslie Hawthorn Joins OSU Open Source Lab
date: 2010-10-07
author: Lance Albertson
slug: leslie-hawthorn-joins-osu-open-source-lab
---
by Lance Albertson on Thu, Oct 07 2010

CORVALLIS, Ore. - The Oregon State University Open Source Lab is pleased to
announce that Leslie Hawthorn has just joined the team as an Open Source
Outreach Manager. An internationally known speaker and advocate for open source
software development methodologies and community practices, Leslie Hawthorn
brings more than 10 years experience in project management, marketing and public
relations to her new role. She previously worked as a Program Manager at Google
Inc, where she was responsible for the company’s open source outreach efforts,
most notably the Google Summer of Code program and Google Highly Open
Participation contest.

Leslie has been honored with the 2010 OSCON Open Source Award and the 2010
National Center for Open Source in Education Award. She also serves on the
NSF/CPATH Steering Committee for the Humanitarian FOSS Project and the Editorial
Board for the open source Business Resource. She has previously served on the
Advisory Board for the GNOME Foundation and most recently on the Program
Committee for the first ever open source Track at the Grace Hopper Celebration
of Women In Computing.

"We are thrilled that Leslie Hawthorn has joined the Oregon State University
Open Source Lab," said Terri Fiez, Head of the School of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science. "Her extensive experience with managing programs that
introduce students to open source software development will be a great asset to
the university and support our new open source curriculum."

Leslie's duties will include developing new programs to increase awareness and
adoption of open source development in the undergraduate and graduate levels. As
part of her immediate efforts, Leslie will join forces with Deborah Bryant,
Public Sector Communities Manager, to focus on outreach for GOSCON, the
Government open source Conference. She will also be working on marketing and
fundraising efforts for the Lab, which serves over 100 significant open source
communities and more than 6 million software downloads per day.

“The addition of a full-time, committed resource focused on outreach came in
response to a tremendous demand for the Open Source Labs services and
expertise,” said Curt Pederson, Chief Information Officer and Vice Provost for
Information Services. “The global open source community - academia, industry and
government - provides a rich model for innovation through collaboration, in
keeping with the University’s land-grant mission to build community. The Open
Source Lab is one of Oregon State University’s premier contributors to this
communal conversation.”

**About the OSU Open Source Lab:** The Oregon State University Open Source Lab
is the home of growing, high-impact open source communities. Its world-class
hosting services enable the Linux operating system, Apache web server, the
Drupal content management system and more than 50 other leading open source
software projects to collaborate with contributors and distribute software to
millions of users globally. Through custom software development, vendor
partnerships and industry events like the Government open source Conference
(GOSCON), the Lab's staff and students encourage open source adoption in
education, government, health care and other sectors. For more information,
visit http://osuosl.org/. Linux is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. Drupal is a
trademark of Dries Buytaert. Google Summer of Code and the Google Highly Open
Participation Contest are trademarks of Google. Other company and project names
are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies and
projects.

**About Oregon State University:** OSU is one of only two U.S. universities
designated a land-, sea-, space- and sun-grant institution. OSU is also Oregon’s
only university designated in the Carnegie Foundation’s top tier for research
institutions, garnering more than 60 percent of the total federal and private
research funding in the Oregon University System. Its more than 20,300 students
come from all 50 states and more than 80 countries. OSU programs touch every
county within Oregon, and its faculty teach and conduct research on issues of
national and global importance.
