---
title: A Look Back at the OSL's Partnerships with Google and TDS
date: 2006-03-06
author: Anonymous
slug: look-back-osls-partnerships-google-and-tds
---
by Anonymous on Mon, Mar 06 2006

*As the Open Source Lab celebrates a decade of open source hosting, development
and education, the lab is reflecting on its past accomplishments. Below is a
favorite from our archives.*

  **OSL Teams with TDS for Bandwidth Increase**

Originally published on March 06, 2006

The Open Source Lab at Oregon State University has received a large donation of
Internet bandwidth from TDS Telecom that will allow it to more than double the
number of visitors it can serve, in the future helping up to 50 million people a
day review or download free software.

For a five-year period, the Open Source Lab will receive 600 megabits of
bandwidth - a volume of Internet connectivity that is more than five times
higher than the total used by the rest of the university. In addition, OSU
servers will be hosted in a TDS Data Center.

“This gift from TDS Telecom really allows OSU to continue its integrated efforts
in education, research, and outreach in the Open Source space. The increased
bandwidth gives OSU strong reach into many of the communities it serves,” said
Ed Ray, President of Oregon State University.

TDS Telecom is a major telephone and Internet services provider. Their donation
of bandwidth to OSU will help TDS balance the volume of data they share back and
forth with other networks, which is necessary for the smooth operation of the
global Internet system.

OSU's Open Source Lab is a national leader in the exchange of open source
software. OSU, for instance, is one of the main distributor's of Mozilla
Firefox, a popular Web browser that is widely used around the world. Often
without realizing it, people who download Mozilla Firefox to their computers are
going through an OSU laboratory. The TDS donation will enable OSU to provide
more highly demanded content. "TDS Telecom believes in the work we're doing with
the open source software community, and they know this bandwidth will be put to
a very good use,” said Scott Kveton, director of the Open Source Laboratory at
OSU. "This will allow us to significantly expand our impact, visibility, and
services.”

Unlike proprietary systems that are purchased from individual companies, open
source software is generally free to anyone. Its code or blueprints are
available to work with, improve, customize for individual needs, and pass along
to the next user. This collaborative process often results in software of very
high quality, and the concept is rapidly gaining interest in the consumer and
business communities.

The new TDS donation, Kveton said, should allow the Open Source Lab to expand
the software services it can host and provide freely to others. The laboratory
is already actively working with the Pacific Northwest and national business
community, helping to educate business leaders about the wide range of software
available through open source - everything from word processing to spreadsheets,
Web browsing and other needs. And one of the facility's best customers is the
university itself, which has saved significant amounts of money by using open
source software for more than half of its operations.
