---
title: OSL Staff Mentors International Students Through Google Summer of Code
date: 2013-02-11
authors: ["Kayla Harr"]
slug: osl-staff-mentors-international-students-through-google-summer-of-code
---

![OSL Staff Mentors International Students Through Google Summer of Code](/images/GsoC2012logo.jpg#blog)

**Real-world work experience is one of the most valuable things an employer can
provide to students preparing to enter the job market.**

At the Oregon State University Open Source Lab, that experience is readily
available to 19 part-time student employees who balance their coursework at
Oregon State with a job that offers them professional training. But the lab’s
influence on ambitious students reaches beyond Oregon State, and even the United
States, through Google’s Summer of Code program.

The summer program connects students 18 years and older around the world with
mentors in the open source field and sponsors their work for the summer. As a
GSoC mentoring organization since 2006, the OSL has had students from countries
around the world, including China, Portugal and Venezuela, contribute to
in-house development projects. Last summer, 19-year-old Polish student Piotr
Banaszkiewicz collaborated with developers and students at the lab to refine
tools for Ganeti Web Manager, a virtual server management program developed at
the OSL.

  > *“This is definitely the greatest and most valuable experience I could get,”
  > he says. “Not everyone is fortunate enough to get it at this age.”*

Banaszkiewicz implemented a daemon to provide metrics in Ganeti that can be
displayed as a graph of data about the virtual machines the program is running.
According to OSL Senior Software Engineer Ken Lett, who supervised
Banaszkiewicz’s work, this addition to Ganeti will contribute both to the
software’s usability and to future development.


  > *“This allows system administrators to view the state and history of the
  > machines in their cluster in a very visual and intuitive way,” Lett says. “His
  > work also created an infrastructure on which further visualization and
  > analysis tools can be built. Writing flexible, extensible and pluggable code
  > not only makes our work easier in Ganeti Web Manager, but will hopefully
  > inform and improve his future work in any type of programming.”*

![Piotr at the Zoo](/images/PiotrAtTheZoo.JPG)

Working with developers more than 5,500 miles away from his hometown near
Cracow, Poland, Banaszkiewicz says, was only difficult because of the nine-hour
time difference that meant staff members didn’t arrive for work at the OSL
office until it was evening in Poland. But by connecting with OSL staff over
Internet Relay Chat and sharing ideas through Google Docs, he says was able to
learn from his mentors at the OSL and improve his knowledge about virtualization
and working with Python and Vagrant.

  > *“I can see the OSL as a very pro-student organization, which I was delighted
  > to work for,” he says. “There are some very passionate programmers, who
  > actually were like teachers for me during GSoC.”*

Banaszkiewicz is unique among GSoC students the OSL has mentored in that he
previously worked with the lab through Google Code-in, a program similar to GSoC
but designed for high school students. He has been the only Google Code-in
student to continue to be mentored by the OSL in GSoC. Performing tasks for the
OSL as a high school student, Banaszkiewicz says, introduced him to the tools
used in professional open source development.

  > *“I was a little younger and did not know many technologies used by the OSL
  > team,” he says. “Now these technologies are obligatory in any project, and I'm
  > very happy I could learn them so early.”*

Now, Banaszkiewicz is studying at the AGH University of Science in Cracow. He
plans to apply to work as a GSoC student with the OSL again this summer and
continue to expand his knowledge of open source development. The OSL’s continued
participation in GSoC, Lett says, not only offers students a unique opportunity,
but also presents a host of benefits both for the lab and the open source
community.

  > *“Mentoring young open source developers bolsters the community we rely on,
  > and helps make sure the new generation of open source developers comes in with
  > real skill and knowledge,” Lett says. “It also creates connections that bring
  > benefits back to us in the form of contributions to our projects,
  > collaborations with other projects and relationships with developers around
  > the world.”*

Media contact: Kayla Harr, harrk@osuosl.org To learn more about the students who
gain real-world experience through the Open Source Lab, visit our [staff](/about/people) page.
More information about Google Summer of Code and how to participate can be found
at [Google Summer of Code](http://code.google.com/soc/).
