OSU Open Source Lab announces OSL Alliance Corporate Sponsorship Program
========================================================================
:date: 2009-03-03
:author: OSUOSL Admin
:slug: osl-announces-osl-alliance-corp-spons-prog

IBM, Google and Real Networks among lab's industry donors

.. class:: no-breaks

  Source: Jeff Sheltren, 541-713-3206

Media contact: Todd Simmons, 541-737-4611

CORVALLIS, Ore. - The Oregon State University Open Source Lab, home to growing
open source communities, today announced the OSL Alliance™ corporate sponsorship
program. The OSL Alliance enables commercial vendors to financially support the
expansion of computing infrastructure and services that OSL provides to open
source projects worldwide. Among its donors, Google and Real Networks have
contributed $1.25 million to date.

The Open Source Lab has provided world-class hosting and custom development for
many of the world's largest and most far-reaching open source efforts, including
the Mozilla Firefox browser, the Linux Foundation's main infrastructure, the
Apache Software Foundation and the Drupal™ content management system.

"We're grateful for the generous support of our Alliance partners," said Curt
Pederson, vice provost for Information Services at OSU and chief information
officer for the Oregon University System. "Their sponsorship not only enables
the Open Source Lab to be self-sufficient, but allows our staff and students to
extend OSL’s services to the next generation of high-impact open source
projects."

The OSL Alliance is a tiered sponsorship program offering corporate partners
escalating benefits at each level of cash or in-kind contribution to the Lab.
While the entry-level "bronze" membership starts at $10,000 per year, platinum
sponsors at the $100,000 tier receive a customizable package of benefits that
may include hosting services for designated open source projects, dedicated
development resources or even named internships. For more information on the OSL
Alliance program, visit osuosl.org/alliance.

"The Open Source Lab provides essential hosting services and infrastructure for
the Linux Foundation and many other critical open source initiatives," said Dan
Frye, vice president of Open Systems at IBM. "The OSL's support is important not
just to IBM, but to the industry and open source communities worldwide."

"OSL developers played a key role in bringing our Helix™ multimedia player to
the One Laptop Per Child system," noted Martin Schwartz, AVP for Digital
Entertainment Products at RealNetworks. "We're excited to partner with the Lab
in fostering the development of open source content creation tools and media
players."

"Oregon State University is a trusted resource for the global open source
community, including a wide range of projects supported by Google," said Chris
DiBona, Google's Open Source Programs manager. "We're pleased to assist the work
of the Open Source Lab."

In addition to the OSL Alliance announced today, the Open Source Lab also
unveiled the Friends of OSL™ donation program for individuals and small
organizations. Designed for open source community enthusiasts desiring to
support the work of the Open Source Lab, the Friends of OSL membership starts at
$25 per year. At each membership level, donors receive benefits ranging from
t-shirts and recognition on the OSL web site and in collateral materials to
passes to the annual GOSCON conference.

For more details, visit osuosl.org/friends.

About the OSU Open Source Lab

The Oregon State University Open Source Lab is the home of growing, high-impact
open source communities. Its world-class hosting services enable the Linux
operating system, Apache web server, the Drupal content management system and
over 50 other leading open source software projects to collaborate with
contributors and distribute software to millions of users globally. Through
custom software development, vendor partnerships and industry events like the
Government Open Source Conference (GOSCON), the Lab's staff and students
encourage open source adoption in education, government, health care and other
sectors. For more information, visit osuosl.org

OSL Alliance and Friends of OSL are trademarks of Oregon State University. Linux
is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. Drupal is a trademark of Dries Buytaert. Other
company and project names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their
respective companies and projects.
