OSL 'Unconference' Approaches
=============================
:date: 2012-04-03
:author: Kayla Harr
:slug: osl-unconference-approaches

The Oregon State University Open Source Lab will host Beaver BarCamp 9 Saturday,
April 21, in the Kelley Engineering Center. The event is free and open to
anyone, including OSU students of all majors and interests, faculty and
community members.

Beaver BarCamp is an opportunity to learn about an assortment of projects,
skills and interests through discussion in an open, participant-led format.
Attendees are invited to devise and lead interactive sessions that others at the
conference can join. In the past, BarCamp sessions have focused both on computer
and software development and on completely non-technical subjects. Topics have
included writing software applications, learning Spanish, screenplay writing,
the computer science gender gap, improving Web security and biking, among
others.

BarCamps are often described as “unconferences” that blend the informational
element of a conference with an informal and participatory philosophy. Instead
of lectures and presentations, BarCamp attendees can expect to learn and share
their own knowledge through discussions and activities. BarCamp sessions will be
held from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m., but participants can attend any portion of the day
to join upcoming sessions. Those who are interested in presenting a talk can
propose their sessions at any time throughout the day, though arriving at the
beginning of the event to add a session to the schedule is encouraged for
maximum participation. Refreshments will be provided.

The OSL hosts Beaver BarCamp semiannually with events in the spring and fall to
engage the OSU and Corvallis community in creative discussion and collaboration.
The lab is home to more than 160 open source projects and facilitates more than
600,000 unique downloads each day. To support its efforts, the lab employs
several qualified OSU students who gain professional experience managing open
source projects, maintaining servers and providing support to the open source
projects the OSL hosts. Many of those students will present sessions at Beaver
BarCamp to share the knowledge and technical skills they've developed through
their work at the OSL.

For more information on Beaver BarCamp, including directions to the Kelley
Engineering Center, visit http://beaverbarcamp.org.
