Write the Docs '15
==================
:date: 2015-06-17
:author: Elijah Voigt
:slug: write-the-docs-15
:img: document-all-the-things.jpg

The day is May 18. The location is the Portland's Crystal Ballroom. The
conference is Write the Docs (WtD). Excitement and anticipation fill the air as
we collectively munch on breakfast foods and find a seat. The keynote begins and
immediately sets the mood: docs are fun, docs are interesting, and here's how
you can make your docs awesome.

WtD was quite the experience and it got me excited about documentation,
something I admit I never expected to be all that excited about. At times it
felt like a support group for non-technical individuals that work with
engineers, other times it felt like a storyteller sharing with us their
adventure in documenting some massive project, and most importantly it was
always engaging and interesting. Some of my most memorable talks were of
Twillio's efforts to make their documentation better, GitHub's workflow of
writing docs for GitHub with GitHub, and Google's new documentation tool and how
it was developed and adopted in a grass roots effort as opposed to a top-down
corporate approach. I even gave a Lightning Talk on "How to Write the Best Email
You've Never Written... Until Now" which went over very well and seemed to speak
to a lot of people.

Inspired by this awesome conference, we have have started a massive overhaul on
our documentation including writing official style guides, overhauling the new
hire onboarding docs, and updating our wiki. With the new hire documentation we
have taken into account lessons learned from the conference, like how we should
make docs fun to read in addition to informational; this shift has resulted in
our 'Gamified New Hire Docs' rewrite, which essentially gamifies the onboarding
process to be more fun. Once one of the new student employees passes a
milestone, like submitting their first GitHub Pull Request, they get a reward
badge (e.g., a gold star sticker). It might not seem like much, but this is way
better than slogging through a daunting pile of docs as one starts a new job.
