---
title: Sponsors
slug: sponsors
---

We gratefully acknowledge the generous support of the following organizations whose annual contributions of $25,000 or
more during fiscal years 2024 and 2025 have been vital to the Open Source Lab's operations and ability to serve the
open source community.

---

[![IBM Logo](/images/ibm-logo_small.jpg#sponsors)](https://www.ibm.com/)

**IBM** is a long-standing supporter of the Open Source Lab, contributing both valuable hardware resources and
financial support.

A strong advocate, sponsor, and contributor to the Linux developer community and open technology development, IBM
continues this tradition by generously contributing POWER servers to the OSL. These systems provide essential
infrastructure for the community to develop Linux and open source projects on the Power Architecture. For more
information and SSH-based remote access, please visit our [development hosting](/services/powerdev) page.

---

[![Intel Logo](/images/Intel_logo_2023.svg#sponsors)](https://intel.com)

**Intel** is a global leader in silicon manufacturing and computing technology.

Intel has significantly supported the OSL by donating modern server hardware. This contribution has been crucial for
refreshing our systems with newer, more powerful, and energy-efficient infrastructure, enhancing the performance and
reliability of the open source projects we host.

---

[![Google Logo](/images/Google_2015_logo.svg#sponsors)](https://www.google.com/)

**Google** is a global technology leader and a major force in the open source ecosystem.

Google's support for the OSL comes in the form of substantial financial grants. This funding is critical for providing
essential infrastructure services to the open source community, including reliable physical hosting, vital bandwidth,
and critical 'Smart Hands' support. Beyond their direct support of the OSL, Google is a major contributor to the open
source movement, developing numerous open source projects and sponsoring initiatives like the Summer of Code program.

---

[![Tag1 Logo](/images/tag1_logo.png#sponsors)](https://tag1.com/)

**Tag1 Consulting** specializes in architecting, optimizing, securing, and delivering large-scale applications and
infrastructures.

As demonstrated by their significant contributions to projects like Yjs and Goose, and their position as a leading
contributor to Drupal (#2 all-time), Tag1 Consulting is deeply invested in the success of open source. Tag1 supports
the OSL through financial contributions, which are vital in enabling us to provide reliable infrastructure and services
to the open source community.

---

[![TDS Logo](/images/tds_logo.jpg#sponsors)](https://tdstelecom.com/)

**TDS Telecom** is a major provider of broadband and voice services.

TDS Telecom provides significant support to the OSL through a generous donation of bandwidth. This substantial
contribution, totaling 40 gigabits over a five-year period, greatly enhances the OSL's ability to deliver open source
software to millions globally. In addition to the bandwidth, TDS hosts several OSU servers in their data centers,
enabling the OSL to maintain critical mirroring servers in geographically diverse locations like New York, NY, and
Chicago, IL. This distributed infrastructure allows faster, more reliable downloads for users accessing mirrored
project files.
