---
title: "Student Stories"
slug: stories
draft: true
---

[Building a Bright Future With DevOps](/blog/devops)
----------------------------------------

Submitted by Kayla Harr on August 2, 2012

![Student Experience at OSUOSL](/images/MikeRacksPicweb.jpg)

Sometimes finding the best solution means starting over. That was Mike Cooper's
dilemma as he tackled his first solo project at the Oregon State University Open
Source Lab. An OSU sophomore studying computer science who had just been hired
in March 2010 to work as a system administrator for the lab, he was tasked with
securing a network connection that could be extended to laptops, allowing lab
staff and hosted projects to connect to the lab's private network from anywhere.

[Read more](/blog/devops)


[Open Source, Open Future](/blog/open-source-open-future)
----------------------------

Submitted by Kayla Harr on May 10, 2012

As a freshman at Oregon State University in early 2010, Jordan Evans didn't have
a lot of computer science experience. Though he had always had an interest in
computers, Evans had come to OSU as a mathematics major and, like many
first-year students, didn't yet have a clear idea of what he hoped to do with
his education.

[Read more](/blog/open-source-open-future)


[Helping Drupal Grow](/students/stories/drupal_infrastructure)
----------------------

Submitted by OSUOSL Admin on February 5, 2009

When Drupal began to outgrow its infrastructure in the summer of 2005, its
developers appealed to the open source community for help. OSL offered to host
the equipment, and students Eric Searcy and Narayan Newton were put on the case.

"We attacked the problem from two different angles," says Newton, who now works
with Tag1 Consulting and is a member of the association that runs Drupal.
Searcy, now a systems administrator at InsightsNow in Corvallis, dealt with the
scaling of the Web side of Drupal while Newton worked with the database.

[Read more](students/stories/drupal_infrastructure)


[A History of Development](/students/stories/trisano)
----------------------------

Submitted by OSUOSL Admin on February 5, 2009

During his time at OSL, Josh Schonstal has worked on One Laptop Per Child and
recently has been spending his time on TriSano, a tool that will help the
Centers for Disease Control monitor outbreaks of infectious disease,
environmental hazards, and bioterrorism attacks. TriSano is soon to be deployed
in hospitals throughout Utah.

[Read more](students/stories/trisano)
